When we chant sutras, we must
make our chanting voice
captivating, so that people can listen
attentively to the
meaning of the sutra. When they hear the
meaning of the sutra, they will experience
joy and enlightenment.
This joy is the cause that allows them to
enter the stream of Buddhist teachings. Even with
small benefits, we should think of sentient beings
to cultivate our minds and hearts.
Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, on this opening day of the sutra chanting ceremony
during the summer retreat of the monks, I
have instructed the practitioners and the
congregations to send some files of individual and group
chanting to the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club so that we can check if
our chanting is good.
Because when we chant sutras at
ceremonies or funerals, the
chanting voice must be even, and the chanting must flow smoothly
so that
people can follow along.  And
the content of the Buddhist scriptures, and the
understanding I had
earlier, is that it's meant to reach the general public and
listeners, especially when
we chant at funerals.
It's beneficial to chant evenly and clearly, as this
helps listeners focus on
the content of the
scriptures. From that focus, they
understand the meaning. If we chant
poorly, listeners
will question it with disapproval,
and they won't benefit.
Secondly, if we chant in a disjointed way, making it sound strange or
unusual, they might find it
amusing and distract them
from the meaning
of the scriptures. Furthermore, if we chant
intermittently,
we can't fully immerse ourselves
in the scriptures because we're just
following the crowd.  We still need to see
when the audience finishes, and it's very difficult.
The errors that fellow practitioners often make when
sending back audio or video files are as
follows: Regarding individuals, some practitioners chant
as if they were reading
at home. Dear fellow practitioners, please listen to an
audio file that the club's information team
has released: "The world's teacher teases the Buddha, the ever
-present ruler of the world. Please remember, in
this life, from beginningless time
until now, we have created so many sins,
causing trouble for others to hear and enjoy.
Dear fellow practitioners, you have just
heard the voice of
someone reading the scriptures. Now, we
see that when we read like that, it's like
someone practicing reading,
each word carefully chosen, not a clear, vulgar voice. If
we
prolong the words a little,
today we will guide you on
how to
extend the voice from a
reading voice to a diaphragmatic voice, for example, "
The world's teacher, the Buddha, the ever-present
ruler of the world." That's the reading voice.
Now let's move on to this vulgar way of speaking. The
Buddha, the
Venerable One, is always present in this world. That means for each
word, we should read it a little longer. The
word "all" is "all," and then "all" is "all." That
means just a little longer, and
it becomes a vulgar tone. As for the rising and falling rhythm, it follows our accent marks (rising, falling, rising, falling, and strong),
creating the up and down melody.
You should choose the path we follow;
we must train ourselves personally. I'm
reminding you of the world, the Buddhas, the
Venerable One, the Buddha, the Venerable One,
always present in
this world. Please, children,
read clearly, word by word. We just need to lengthen it a little, for example. Yes, the world should be long, or we should read faster. I'm reading
very fast, but it's still a chanting tone because
we have the habit of lengthening
the word a little. If we read very
fast, the world should be the Buddha, the Venerable One,
used for the mother, that's also reading,
but it's not yet extended.  Furthermore, it's
probably also about chanting. Let's practice, let's get used
to it. This
replaces the world, the Buddha's body, the eternal
abode in this world.
Just keep practicing, and you'll
get used to it. After practicing a lot, you'll read slowly, then
you'll read quickly, and
you'll maintain that tone. This replaces
the world, the eternal abode in this world. Please
remember, in this life and the previous life, from the
beginningless time, from the beginningless time to this time, right? Reading quickly,
but we must have time to
practice, carefully encompassing each word, each sentence. You
said that, so if we continue like this, the
whole assembly will be very uniform, and continuing
like this will make it very easy to memorize
because we understand the meaning,
connecting them together. It won't let the old man
get scared, so he will remember it very well, very
quickly, noble fellow practitioner.
Now, Yen also chants very quickly, but Yen chants
alone, so she might get out of
breath. But Tung chants alone, and he also chants quickly,
both worlds, still the same, the wound, the
bitterness. Please remember, in
this life and the previous life, from the beginningless time, from this
time, we have created so much.  At
that time, I advised people to listen and enjoy themselves, following the
path of Hoang, dissolving the sins, or the Phuong group, and mixing them up. Quyen, the thief,
listened and enjoyed himself, or the five sins of abandoning the silk
thread. I advised people to listen and enjoy themselves, inviting them to an unhealthy path, mixing different things, stepping on the mouth, then spreading two-tongued, weaving wicked schemes, greedy hearts before the people, or speculating. I advised people to listen and enjoy themselves, i10, it's very easy, and the words are still round, but the meaning is still
clear, it's not lost, the
roundness is in the bowl, each
sentence, each word, there is no
meaning right above, we have to practice.
For example, if
we don't know the meaning right now, we will memorize a
certain section that we practice,
remember to only put one section. For
example, if we remember the
praise and then the 8th Buddha, there is a
virtuous person from countless lifetimes ago who always did
good deeds. If not, we read
about a virtuous person Na in the
Czech Republic who always did good deeds.
Hey, Tư, we just extend the words.
Seeing that this fast reading has a benevolent
nature in countless lifetimes, performing
good deeds and making offerings. The Buddha's
compassion for all beings shows that no matter how
fast we read, we still maintain a clear pronunciation and rhythm. The
rising and falling tones follow the accent marks: the rising tone goes up, the falling
tone goes down, and the falling tone goes down.
Like other practitioners, we should choose
a passage of scripture or a poem, a prose scripture or
a
poetic scripture, and we will practice in
this way. We will be able to do it
all. There are 11 files of the image of the Buddha bowing and paying homage.
Because we haven't
practiced each word carefully,
when we bow to the Buddha and
read, we are
unfamiliar with it. We
read again, "With sincere devotion, we bow to Namo Utarura Buddha." When we read like
that, it's impossible for the whole congregation to
have a uniform voice.
But if we know each word and its
position, the devotion will be more complete.  Namo
An Phat, so we are
simply using the words, and we become
accustomed to it. When people outside hear the chanting,
they
perceive the reverence and feel compelled to do the same.
If we read it aloud,
they don't yet have a respectful heart; they see
this place as beautiful and so special. The apron is only for
those sitting in front of the screen, listening to one
sentence, then reading another. Let's see
how the hearts of the followers are. With sincere devotion, we bow to Namo Kien Duc
Buddha.
Yes, that's how we read. Now, let's
bow according to the chanting.
Mod, during the holiday, the
Russian language, Duc Phat, outside. Hearing
that, they must be
silent, no matter how noisy they are. When we
chant to the Buddha, they must control
their actions, control their volume,
they must lower it.
This is the effect of
conveying reverence through the essence, clearly showing it
to the bones. The name of the Buddha or the
followers, right? When you
hear that tone,
we ourselves feel...
I feel that
my reverence is heightened because, in the
scriptures, the Buddha taught that when people hear the
Buddha's name, they feel
joy. When people's hearts are filled with joy, they pay attention to the tone and
rhythm of
my voice, the way I speak, the
rising and falling intonation, right? That's why
people should feel joy. But if you just
recite
the name with a sincere heart, bowing and exchanging Buddhist teachings,
that sounds ridiculous to others.
People won't think about the
Buddha's name. Even if you start with a solemn and respectful tone,
people
won't feel solemn because they'll find it funny, right? That
's the
tone. In that way, it brings
laughter, but if we recite in a jerky way,
people can't feel
joy.
So, with this solo chanting voice,
our club has many
group chanting sessions.
Yen also really needs fellow practitioners to
send in their chanting voices.  It's really
about chanting, not
reading.
Yes, that's how we can guide them.
If we guide them by reading
aloud, no one can follow.
Reading is
jerky, and if it's jerky, you don't know when
the master will start chanting.
No one can follow. When
we chant, it's even, and the people
below can easily follow. So here,
Yen is repeating it again: we practice first, paying
homage to the Buddha, the Buddha's name, or
chanting Buddhist scriptures. Paying homage to the Buddha and chanting scriptures—
all of us Buddhists should
read carefully and distinguish clearly.
We can take the
praise of the Buddha in the Ksitigarbha Sutra (
gray) to practice,
because the praise of the Buddha in the
Ksitigarbha Sutra (gray) is very good.
You should collect and replace the part
we read with poetry. That altar...
Oh, this child respectfully bows to the Buddha, the lotus flower, and is
the way the heavenly court does things, burning, spreading,
escaping, like the
dog singing orange.  The Buddha's lost faith in
rebirth, from the realm of knowledge, the great vow,
we now respectfully pay
homage to this place, which has both
prose and poetry characteristics.
We must also recite
this form;
the screen displays a continuous line, the top line is
poetic, but the bottom line is
prose.
Therefore, we cannot read it as poetry alone. For
example, here we pay homage to the Lotus Buddha;
we cannot interrupt it,
but there is a type of poetry we can
practice. For example, there is a wise man among countless nations, a
colorful card, doing good deeds, and then
we finish a line, but
here the meaning is continuous.
Sometimes we cannot break it down.
Give me the Great Compassion, how is it? Then let's continue.
This child respectfully bows to the lotus flower, the purple tail represents
wisdom, the wing of heavenly destiny, the nest of
complete liberation. Bodhisattva, like the
Lord, scooping up the oranges. The Buddha's lost faith in rebirth,
from the realm of knowledge, the great vow,
we now respectfully pay homage to
this place. We cannot read it as poetry,
nor as prose.  This
is a third form that we
need to learn, the
last part of the prostration is that
we bow down very low,
so we read the last two words
slowly. This is to remember the meaning of the
prostration. When we read this,
our hearts are filled with reverence. We respectfully bow down, and we say, "
We respectfully ask for your guidance and understanding."
This is in accordance with
our state of mind. And
in
each part of the prostration to the Buddha,
we also read the last two words slowly.
Or, thinking back, Sister Tâm should have
done a prostration to all ten directions and three lifetimes, to all
teachers. Anyone who hasn't yet received the Buddha's blessing, there
is a representative spirit there. That is,
we have completed the prostration, and in the
final part, our hearts calm
down so that our entire body and mind are prostrating with
both feet. The person listening to the chanting can
understand our heart,
understand the heart of the person performing the prostration.
But if we read it and Sister Tâm says, "I should have done a prostration to all
ten directions and three lifetimes, to all teachers, to all
Buddhas," it is very difficult to achieve that state of
mind.  It is difficult for me to achieve
enlightenment, and it is also very difficult to
achieve enlightenment for others.
Hearing these two voices, one is noble and virtuous. The
first voice makes one feel a sense of
purpose, but the second voice, from the perspective of the path, should be
dignified in body and mind. But
this latter voice doesn't help the esteemed fellow practitioners at all.
Before, the mind of the esteemed fellow practitioners remained the same;
after listening, it didn't
improve at all. Remember, the energy is full of emptiness.
At noon, we are cultivating Bodhicitta to
benefit sentient beings in Laos. Whatever we do,
we must see that the action
benefits ourselves and
sentient beings. We need to learn what is
called skillful means, skillful means to benefit ourselves and sentient beings.
When
the group is clear like this, everything
belonging to a practitioner becomes a skillful
means to benefit sentient beings because of
enlightenment. We need to diligently
study.
When we are in the world, we
must diligently study and practice everything
we do to succeed in our spiritual practice. In everything
we do, we must diligently
study and
practice.  Only then can we
achieve such success,
my aspiration is to benefit myself and all sentient beings,
and to all my esteemed fellow practitioners. I
sincerely hope that all esteemed fellow
practitioners can practice this. Now, I will perform the
39 rituals to create a secret tradition so that all fellow
practitioners can follow along. I will perform the ritual
in this sutra. Looking at the current horoscope,
the gray color in the cells is present.
After listening to this, let
's take out the Viking and place it in front of us to
learn. Sister Tam, full of rituals,
Namo Ten Directions, who do you want me to replace the two
words of Buddha? Sister, Tam, full of rituals, Namo Four,
is the ancient Shakyamuni Buddha,
Ca Mau, where are the Buddhas? Yes, sister, Tam,
you are the trick to make a stone quarry, Buddha's intention
? Sister, Tam, full of rituals, Namo, what is it in Lac
Phat?
I only love you, Tam, full of rituals, more than making a
great Ao Thong A, Son La, King Buddha? Sister, Tam, you
will make a
victory, Buddha's intention
? Sister, Tam, you will make a love, a
step towards development
? Sister, Tam, you will make a single act of achieving
Buddha's intention? Yes,
sister, you are the heart.  "It is indeed true that Namo Buddha, the compassionate Buddha, is what I
hear, dear fellow practitioners. Now,
how should we practice? When
practicing, the mind should be focused like a deer practicing
to achieve the auspicious and
respectful form of the Buddha, the
form of the voice, the tone of
voice, and to achieve the beneficial mind of reverence for the
Buddha, helping everyone to be joyful
when hearing the name of the Buddha,
the name of the Bodhisattva, the holy ones.
When the team strives,
dear fellow practitioners, there is another part, the
Incense Offering, where the fellow practitioners gather in the
entire congregation, while
we are at the temple. We see
that there is only one monk offering
incense, who will teach us to go to the temple to
participate in many rituals
of the district, then go home, and some fellow
practitioners apply it in the congregation, the entire
congregation in the district. This
is not correct according to the printed label,
dear fellow practitioners. Let's watch the video
that our fellow practitioners have sent.
When we practice the Incense Offering,
dear fellow practitioners, one of
us, Nguyen, speaks in the language of the Buddha."  It's about
expressing it verbally, and the whole congregation
follows the mind, truly, when
we offer incense, we quiet our minds, we
contemplate, we contemplate, and then there's the
path of enlightenment. We listen again to the lesson that
Yen guided us on. That's the meaning of
chanting sutras at a funeral. In that lesson, Yen talks about offering
incense and
how our minds should contemplate. When
we offer incense, we pour
our whole hearts into offering it to the Buddha.
We must have contemplation. For
example, the head of the household brings sincere devotion,
because at that time, all of us quiet our minds, and
naturally, our hearts are
very sincere.
But only one person should offer the incense. Everyone else should contemplate along with
the voice of the district,
singing the prayers and offering them to the path of enlightenment.
Let's see if
our minds
easily follow the
poem by Nguyen, bringing sincere devotion.
I send the sutra with the clouds of incense, to the
Buddhas throughout the ten directions, and also to
visit them.
Yes, throughout life, I will keep the path of enlightenment, following the path of compassion, doing
good with all sentient beings
in the Dharma realm, praying for the Buddha's distant Bodhi mind.  With unwavering wisdom and virtue, Dao Vinh,
far from the source of delusion, returned to the shore of
enlightenment. Nam O Huong also nurtured the Bodhisattva, Nam
Mo Huong offered incense to the Bodhisattva, Nam Mo Huong
also nurtured the Bodhisattva, and resided
there. Thus, when one person makes such a vow of incense,
everyone enters into the
meaning of the Incense Vow. From the
vow, with sincere devotion,
everyone at that moment is very
enlightened. Do you see the sincerity?
I send it with
the clouds of incense, wafting throughout the ten directions. Naturally, my heart, which was already very sincere, shrinks when I hear it. Then my heart begins to open, expanding. When I encounter something, I don't hold back. I send it with the clouds of incense, wafting
throughout the ten directions. My heart
naturally expands. That is, I penetrate the
world. The incense vow
makes our hearts restless
and full of meaning. Then we
continue to move to a new stage of
mind. When we hear the next sentence,
I also rest, each with the Three Jewels,
upholding the Dharma for life. Naturally, our hearts turn back, and
we see that
we have a plan.  The vow of
Nguyen, the
diligent practice of the Dharma, and the guidance of fellow practitioners
give us the initial ability
to continue in King 2.
In this part, fellow practitioners will listen
again to the video explaining the meaning of chanting for
funerals, which is very clearly explained. Yen
also guides fellow practitioners on how to
visualize while chanting.
Dear fellow practitioners, next
is the collective reading and listening to
prose like poetry. Ideally,
we should read prose continuously, but
we probably don't know, we don't know,
so we should listen attentively, and the
whole congregation must
pause along, then we continue reading.
For example, fellow practitioners are
applying from reading alone to reading collectively. When reading alone,
we must
pause because we cannot have enough breath to read
continuously. For example, Yen reads alone,
but when she gets tired, Yen will invite a fellow practitioner
to read as a model. We read according to the
way the congregation now still reads
alone with pauses, but fellow practitioners
have brought...  Applying this to the
entire congregation creates a
break,
brothers and sisters, you see the world - the Buddha's body, the Venerable One,
holding hands. Please consider this, if
you are reading alone, you must
remind yourself that you are also at home, and you are timid, then
you continue reading. Because you run out of breath, you stop, that
's how to read alone at home.
In this place, in previous lives, from beginningless time, from
tonight we have created so many servants to
advise people to see and hear, to follow
you, or the pagoda, or the pure, or the four directions,
to steal things. Forbidden to get acquainted with people, choose to
listen to the collective, to hear, to follow the five bad things, to post. I
advise people to see and hear, to follow the
path, not cold, not cold, not killing, stealing,
lust, the mouth, the old, two places, following, weaving evil.
My Tam, greedy, leading Hai Si Loan Tu,
advising people to see and hear, to follow. If
we are also alone, we will
rest like that so that we can continue.
But noble fellow practitioners, listen to
the video excerpt below and see how the
foundations of fellow practitioners are established according to the congregation, and how
the foundations of fellow practitioners apply these
methods alone.
The people of that country are given appropriate gifts, and the
French people of Trung Phuoc reward
that country with one heart and mind. The mother makes me do
what I do. The central government does what they do, and they
listen to the payment without saying too much.
Respectfully, dear fellow
practitioners, please come here
with Yen to chant scriptures. Now, for lesson 2,
Sister Huong and Sister Thuy are here to
participate. Yen will guide you in
both parts of the chanting. The chanting part involves
chanting in a call-and-response manner,
meaning calling each other's voices so that
it's not interrupted. The
practitioners will call each other from 23 words, for example, if
we are almost out of breath, the person
next to us must know that we are almost out of breath
and respond from that word.
Then it will be immediately followed at the
beginning of the ceremony.
We will assign each other who is responsible for the main
focus. That is, if we assign
two people to chant,
these two people must be responsible for listening and
calling each other. If we say three
people, then all three must call
each other. So, Yen will give an
example.  The two of us will switch, how do we have a
common path? We'll refer to it, meaning
we'll chase each other's voices
so we don't create a way.
Now, Yen will take two different voices,
Yen and Huong will chase each other
with two voices, creating themes. Listen to the
chanting, the
world's master, the Buddha, the
eternal resident in this world. Please recite to yourself, from
this life and the previous life, from Vu Thi Sinh, from
this time, how old we are. I
get acquainted with people, seeing and hearing joy, following the
Dharma, giving, or embracing. Phuong, the object
of the mix, crying. Uyen, the thief, crying, seeing and
hearing joy, following the bad years, killing. I
advise people, the master, hearing joy, inviting the
path, not cold, truly killing, stealing,
leading, using the mouth before Loan. I
advise people, seeing
you, like, following, how much I am, or
concealing, or revealing, the flaws, already in hell, the demons, going to various
places, the border, singing
immortals, also the lineage of disbelief, I, the elders,
like that. Today, we are tools, tattooed, smelly.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, let us see our
way, two or three sentences,
meaning we meet and hear each other's faults,
but we still have to continue reading 23 words.
Benefit us.  We just
heard the other person making a mistake while cooking. And what we
interrupted immediately wasn't continuous or
natural; there was a gap in between. For
example, Yen and Huong reread a stanza.
Brothers and sisters, do you see the world? The Buddha's body, the Supreme Being, is present
in this world. From
the past, from the father, the green, from to the present,
we have created the foundation of the foundations of the path. When we
ask for the words "Sim," we begin to hear
Huong read the word "Sim," then
Yen reads it softly. Yen reads softly,
and Huong reads loudly, so we're
like combining two parts. One
person has to be loud, everyone else is young and small.
The strange rhythm is exactly the same as
when Yen read alone, meaning when two
people combine, it's a
uniform tone. Huong starts with the
word "Xin," then she
reads softly. "Xin" combined with Yen's "Xin" makes
it even, following Huong's tone. Starting with a uniform tone, "Xin," the word "Xin," the sound. That
means the soldier goes quieter, then pays
attention, then gets a little louder.
As soon as she finishes the word "Xin," she starts
again.  Remember, the first word should be in the correct tone. When the person is
resting their head on the pillow, the first word should be spoken softly,
then the second word should be gradually increased, so that
the person calling out starts to gradually decrease until the end of the
word "please" (in a specific way). If not, then it's "my child" (in a specific way)
to nibble, and when it's "my child," then it starts evenly. Listening to the audience, we see the world, the Buddha, the Supreme Being, the place in this world, the film, self-recitation, difficult, this life, from the father, the green water, from tonight, two, there is a path, friend, Thai, not. That is, two people need to match in such a way that the word "please" (in a specific way)
naturally doesn't get too loud or naturally loses its key, causing the audience to naturally become distracted and their minds
to be influenced because the reading voice is not even. From today, when the friends hear this instruction, we Buddhists will divide into two groups, two people per group, two people per pair, so we can practice together. When we lead the group, we will be able to match
this. From the temple,
we must choose a person to lead the
group, then the person will also read in pairs.
Together,
we will find people with
similar voices, or so it goes.
Two of us,
following each other's lead, will bring
great joy to the congregation. This is also a
way of thinking about giving alms. And so,
our esteemed female leaders, we
give alms according to the principle of giving, so that the congregation may be equally
well-off. There is
nothing outside of the Dharma.
Dear fellow practitioners,
if we skillfully divide things up,
we can have two people take turns.
For a long passage of the
Sutra, we can take turns, like two
people taking turns, or two people taking turns the next day.
But remember, one person takes turns
here, one person takes turns here. I am
this person, these people, these people, these days.
When we take turns like this,
we have a break and
we focus our eyes, that is, we use our eyes
to look at the Sutra and our minds follow the meaning of the
Sutra. After we have finished reading,
we can recite a long Sutra, and
our congregation will listen attentively. Respectfully.
Dear fellow practitioners,
in the next section we need to make some adjustments.
Regarding the founding day of the practice, when turning pages, some practitioners do not read or strike the wooden gong.
We need to record the practice that the
practitioners have sent to the club; it cannot be
irregular. "Uh uh uh uh ah ah,
dear parents, please listen to the words of advice
to protect our homeland." Dear fellow practitioners, I
suggest that two people read alternately
for easier understanding. And when turning
pages, the gong should still be steady, and we should
continue reading together. When turning pages,
please have Sister Huong read a sample. We respectfully request that you read the
Buddha's words, the skull of the scholar, we do
not escape because of the compassion, the
heart flows along the edge, the tainted, the
karmic consequences. The concentration is too much. We make progress,
constantly growing, the five swords. Running throughout
the four realms to earn a living, like a mesmerized foot
before disaster, as if caught in a net, even if temporarily urged
out in the rushing water, the eyes are drawn
to the words of examination, the eyes of the martial arts, the net, the mixed, the
dog in the three realms, speaking of birds.
Uh, from the afternoon with the mistakes of the village martial arts, our difficult 10 I
invite you through the wind.  After the dream disc was projected,
after the rabbit was cut, I suffered, so
today we earnestly beg the San Society to grant forgiveness. I, the Hanh Hanh Nguyen,
the father of the
deceased, we
beg for forgiveness.
I
repent for my foolishness, for the past ...
We humbly repent, we need to
discover the phenomenon of not rejoicing, mistakenly
nurturing greed as if grasping a needle and sucking iron,
knowing enough, rich and poor, still smearing the day,
this high world is the limit. When we turn the
page, we do not help the sound of the wooden
bell, the sound of the bell never stops, and
the chanting does not stop. We read continuously
like that. Now, with the Dharma fund, we
see the Buddhists chanting. The whole Dharma assembly respectfully
bows before the Buddha.
Because we do not attain liberation, we rule over the
consciousness, not being affected.
Respectfully, dear Dharma friends, I would also like to
correct a part, which is the part about taking
refuge in the Three Jewels, the male and female practitioners, and the deep understanding of the Dharma.
Or, in the guidance of the
opening ceremony of the group and the Dharma assembly,
there is a part where the main chant reads, but only the main chant
dares to read. Where the
congregation reads together, everyone reads together.
So the main chant reads once
first, then the congregation reads once more.
This is not in accordance with the guidance
of the Dharma fund. Watch the video excerpt
when we and the books fight each other. In
our bookshelf, we need each other, the merits
according to the six actions are not  It is clearly understood that the
communal culture at the temple,
military training, and the Lord's
eyes are respectful. Dear Dharma Friends Tuyến and all
the Dharma friends here, please read
according to the instructions so that we can all strive together to
uphold the precious Three Jewels.
I ask Nguyệt, so that we can all
encourage each other
amidst the ocean of the five precepts, we will be Huyền for
life.
[Music] [
Laughter]
[Music] [Laughter] [Music] [
[Music] [Music]
[Music]
[Music] [Music] [Music
]
[Music]
You go so that we can all encourage each
other. I perform meritorious deeds according to the Dharma.
Respectfully, one is to strive. [Music] [Music
]
Dear Dharma Friends, that is the part of chanting the
refuge in the Three Jewels, the male and female practitioners, and chanting the six
precepts, or we ourselves, Thục, all do
that, it's the insurance fee.
Dear Dharma Friends, Yến, please guide us on the
part of the ceremony. If we are going to perform the ceremony, then if we are going to perform the
ceremony...  For a long ceremony, we
only take one person to pay their respects with sincerity.
And when the person
paying their respects with sincerity is about to be replaced, another person
will take over. Seeing Yen and Huong
taking photos of the ceremony is part of pushing the ceremony forward. This
meaning of the title is part of the
message. Pushing forward the meaning of the long ceremony, listening to
Yen Tri's words about the way and manner. That's all, it's
not that the ceremony above has already been offered
to everyone, there will be no ceremony. Let
me just read, read the
images of the Buddhist ceremony, pushing the offerings forward. A
feeling of not having the sea of ​​Dharma falling, turning around, offering what comes. Ten Directions, Venerable
Buddha, Dharma, Virtuous Saint, Sangha, Compassionate Lord, Three Yin, Uh,
Sister Tam, push it forward. A gold mine, a master,
like the four places,
Shakyamuni Buddha, Future Buddha, Ha Si Duy Lac, Venerable Buddha, great wisdom, ancient land, Bodhisattva, Great Practice, Virtuous
Bodhisattva, Ho, hair, Venerable Bodhisattva, Linh
Son Assembly, compassionate Bodhisattva, splitting hair, striking with
one hand. The next direction, the extremely benevolent
world, great compassion, here goes,
because the Buddha, great compassion, Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva,
Great Power Bodhisattva, Great Origin Bodhisattva, Ksitigarbha
Bodhisattva  Winning, clear mind, great, or, together,
4 Bodhisattvas, afternoon, bottom, up, come,
winter, the teacher, the Western, the
rabbit, the Medicine Buddha, Lapis Lazuli, around the King, the sun, around the border, afternoon,
Bodhisattva, separate, around the sea,
afternoon, Bodhisattva, the most, the most,
2 days together, most of
us, we pay long
respects, so we only read
two words separately, Sister Tâm, the altar, which ceremony, how do we
see it, we only read two
words, Sister, go, shrimp, push, how, one clear,
more than nothing, sea, wind, falling, the kind of wine,
we don't read each word separately, the
press, should be done, the Gate, the city, the fragrance, that, the
chanting voice, that is of the venerable monks and
we will distinguish
because when we chant at a funeral,
sometimes there are Buddhists gathered, and it is indeed the venerable
monks,
so whatever is shared between us and the
ordained monks that we let outsiders
see, we should not
imitate exactly, but we should let
ourselves have a distinction between the venerable
monks and ourselves, that is a respectful
atmosphere of fellowship.  Although we read together,
it's a kind of monopolization when we read
each word individually. If the woman with the flowing hair and the sound of the dreamy,
all-encompassing voice are heard, then it's immediately clear that this is the voice
of the deity. As for us, it
's just the voice of Tam, the rain striking a layer of water, the sea, martial arts, the moment, the manifestation, the low, the Buddha, the venerable, the sage, the saint, the compassionate lord, the husband, the aunt. If there is a deity, then, dear fellow practitioners, now it's green,
the part where we chase each other in the
Buddhist ceremony, that is, short offerings, taking the
long offerings, we are
together now, the green Buddhist ceremony, we
will have one person paying homage to a title, then
another person next to
them paying homage to a title, a great object, and
then the congregation will still join in,
starting from the word "Party" or the word "Ceremony". That's up to you.
Everyone starts with the two words "dance" and "
ceremony". Then Yen and Huong will
each read a title, and then
Yen will put down the jackfruit and let the congregation
hear the sound of the congregation below,
joining in. Dear fellow practitioners, why is it that in this
video, Yen is sitting facing the techniques
when we only...  In practice, it's just a skirt, but in
reality, during the ritual,
we must either stand or
kneel. Sitting is just a skirt, but
here, because the
skirt goes up from below and down from above, it's
difficult. Since we're all sitting, we
just imagine this is the ritual, reminding ourselves. This is
our way of encouraging each other. The
birds are singing, this is the
tenth day of the month, the three generations. I'll let the teacher use the Buddha's words,
the will, the profound wisdom, and the South. One soul, the
feeling, the Buddha.
Yes, sister, the great heart, let's go, one, the Amitabha
Buddha, the wisdom, the heart, let's go, 51, what, silence for a minute.
[Applause]
Yes, yes, uh, uh
[Music]
Yes, yes, yes
[
Applause] Yes, yes [Applause] Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, that is a
fate we have fallen into, which
needs correction while we recite
scriptures alone or in a whole
congregation, even if we are just reciting alone.
Whether at a temple or at a family gathering,
we need to practice reciting scriptures
well because our recitation is to
convey the Buddha's teachings. If we recite
scriptures well and consistently, our minds
will naturally focus more. However, if
we recite
inconsistently, our minds will
be distracted, making it difficult to
penetrate the meaning of the scriptures.
Secondly, if
we recite inconsistently,
outsiders will focus on the
inconsistency,
questioning whether we are praising or criticizing, instead of
concentrating on the meaning of the scriptures.
As disciples of the Buddha, we
practice for our own benefit and the benefit
of others, so we need to
cultivate this skill in all
our practice to
benefit ourselves and others. Those who
connect with us through this
connection,
for example, people who connect with us during
a scripture recitation—those who
listen from the outside—that's a
connection.  We must bring
joy to others through the way
we recite, through our tone and rhythm. Let's make
people truly joyful. Reciting scriptures
consists of two parts: the
first is the meaning of the scripture, and the second is the rhythm.
For example, a song is just a
song, but the singer's voice touches
people's hearts; they understand, they are moved,
they are touched. But
another singer might not have the right rhythm; if they don't
touch people's hearts, they
won't be able to touch their hearts. For instance, a
singer
might sing "Mother's Love" very beautifully, so when
you listen to that, you feel
deeply moved. But if you sing it yourself,
people won't be moved.
For example, if I sing it
without practice,
people probably won't be moved. Let's try singing so
that we can distinguish between
singers. Singers sing very well; when we listen, we
feel
love and gratitude for our mothers. But
maybe I haven't practiced. Although
deep in my heart, I am very
filial and respectful to my mother.  But because we
don't practice to
help others develop a love and respect for their
mothers, we can't do
that. Let me give you an
example to make it easier to understand. For instance,
when you listen to me sing, you'll see that I'm not as dedicated as singers who practice. Their goal is to help people love their mothers, to cultivate that love, and to make them feel remorseful
and repent. That's something
singers can do, something
beneficial, as seen in the song "Mother's Love." But even
though I have a calm heart and love and
respect my mother, I'm grateful to her, but
without practice, I only feel
grateful to myself. Singing the
song won't
move anyone else or
transform their hearts. There are some
very unfilial and rebellious children, but
a singer's voice can touch their hearts, make them
feel remorse, and help them
live better lives, right, dear fellow practitioners? That's the
benefit of chanting our scriptures.
Furthermore, if we practice and
practice well, then those who haven't yet attained the
Buddha's teachings will
see that our recitation conveys a sense of
reverence for the Buddha. They will feel inspired, and thus
their hearts will also be filled with reverence.
Therefore, all dharmas are Buddha-dharma.
If we know how to apply this, and
try singing, the audience will see that we are far inferior to professional singers
because we lack practice. The boundless love of a
mother is like the Pacific Ocean.
Dear fellow practitioners, with
such a voice, how can we
convey emotion to
everyone? If
we can't convey emotion to
everyone, then we gain nothing, and
no one benefits from
this song either. Because the song is meant to guide
people to remember their parents' gratitude and to cultivate filial
piety.
Similarly, when we chant, we
must make our chanting voice captivating.
Because if it
captivates people, they will listen
attentively to the meaning of the sutra. When
they hear the meaning of the sutra,
they will feel joy.  Joy, that very
joy, is the cause of remembering the cause, so that people can remember the cause. "
Yes, I've been given
a little bit of Buddhist teachings." Even with small benefits, we
should think of sentient beings to
cultivate our minds instead of spending time
watching TV, going out, or
chatting idly. Let's think about the
benefit to them. The great compassion in
our personal relationships is the karmic connection of reciting scriptures
to cultivate ourselves.
Our Buddha has
guided sentient beings for three countless eons, yet he
has so little physical body and flesh; our
efforts also belong to our lives. Therefore,
we must also learn from the Buddha, who
also acts for the benefit of himself and sentient
beings. We should practice all the skillful
means when we have the opportunity to
read scriptures. When we read scriptures, we need to read them correctly to
cultivate a joyful mind. When we
cook rice, we must learn to cook
delicious rice to offer, right?
Whatever the task, we will do
it. That is, in each karmic connection,
we see the benefit and
happiness for ourselves in the law of karma and create connections
for sentient beings.  For
others, because only then will we not betray the gratitude of the
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. We, sitting
here, may have heard
a voice reciting scriptures from a past life. Yes,
just the voice reciting scriptures, and
we might find it so
beautiful, so peaceful, that it's like some kind of cushion or
something guiding us to sit here
today. For example, just one verse of
scripture, like the Sixth Patriarch Huineng heard it while
fishing,
and from the day his mind was captivated, that verse was
there. Then, on the day
he went to prison, the fellow practitioners reciting
scriptures was very precious in each of
our karmic connections. We hope that the fellow
practitioners will be joyful,
enlightened, and have the spirit of "Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni"
in the great province of our hearts. We dedicate the merit, and we
vow to do this meritorious deed. Yesterday, I went to
all places, so that I and all sentient beings may
fully attain Buddhahood. Oh, yes,
yes.